**Title: Finite mixture (or latent class) modeling in transportation: Trends, usage, potential, and future directions**

**Date:** 2023-06-01

**Link:** [doi.org/10.1016/j.trb.2023.03.001](https://www.doi.org/10.1016/j.trb.2023.03.001)

**Journal:** Transportation Research Part B: Methodological

**Abstract:** Accounting for some types of heterogeneity has been an important pathway to improving our models in the transportation domain, specifically in travel behavior research. This study examines the finite mixture modeling (latent class modeling) framework, which has been an appealing approach to that end. Through a comprehensive and systematic review, the paper aims to provide a broader understanding of the usage landscape and also insights into detailed elements. We firstly set up the mixture modeling framework; outline an arena of various relevant research fields; and explain how it is connected to transportation analyses. Then, by using the Scopus database, we explore relevant papers to investigate macroscopic trends in usage of the methodology (yearly trends and research topics). We identify six subdomains in transportation with the aid of nonnegative matrix factorization. We examine several components of the mixture modeling framework in detail. Each subsection covers certain elements of the framework and thus illuminates the landscape of usage and related issues: eight types of heterogeneity; two modeling approaches (exploratory and confirmatory); types of problems (supervised and unsupervised learning); membership model; outcome model; selecting the number of classes; comparisons with competing models; and software and estimation. At the end, we present a few current frontiers and potential directions for future research, and offer further discussion on several issues that arise in the context of mixture models.


---
**Title: Optimal Leveraged Portfolio Selection Under Quasi-Elastic Market Impact**

**Date:** 2023-05-24

**Link:** [doi.org/10.1287/opre.2023.2462](https://www.doi.org/10.1287/opre.2023.2462)

**Journal:** Operations Research

**Abstract:** Dangers of Ignoring Market Friction When Leveraging Financial PortfoliosPortfolio leveraging is a standard industry practice to target higher fund returns, for example, in risk parity asset allocation. However, the existing models of optimal bet sizing fail to integrate analytically the impact on leveraged portfolio selection resulting from market liquidity issues. The paper “Optimal Leveraged Portfolio Selection Under Quasi-Elastic Market Impact” considers a market in which both temporary and permanent impact on trading prices are present with the former impact being sufficiently large relative to the latter. Our analytical conclusions, supported by a case study that uses even relatively more liquid U.S. exchange-traded fund assets, demonstrate that fund managers are ill advised to ignore market friction when leveraging to achieve target higher returns. Not only risk-adjusted returns significantly deteriorate, but also those losses become steeper when setting higher targets requiring increased levels of leverage. Moreover, leverage-constrained and less risk-averse investors ignoring liquidity costs ex ante face the most losses in expected utility ex post.


---
**Title: Uncertainty Estimation of Connected Vehicle Penetration Rate**

**Date:** 2023-05-22

**Link:** [doi.org/10.1287/trsc.2023.1209](https://www.doi.org/10.1287/trsc.2023.1209)

**Journal:** Transportation Science

**Abstract:** Knowledge of the connected vehicle (CV) penetration rate is crucial for realizing numerous beneficial applications during the prolonged transition period to full CV deployment. A recent study described a novel single-source data penetration rate estimator (SSDPRE) for estimating the CV penetration rate solely from CV data. However, despite the unbiasedness of the SSDPRE, it is only a point estimator. Consequently, given the typically nonlinear nature of transportation systems, model estimations or system optimizations conducted with the SSDPRE without considering its variability can generate biased models or suboptimal solutions. Thus, this study proposes a probabilistic penetration rate model for estimating the variability of the results generated by the SSDPRE. An essential input for this model is the constrained queue length distribution, which is the distribution of the number of stopping vehicles in a signal cycle. An exact probabilistic dissipation time model and a simplified constant dissipation time model are developed for estimating this distribution. In addition, to improve the estimation accuracy in real-world situations, the braking and start-up motions of vehicles are considered by constructing a constant time loss model for use in calibrating the dissipation time models. VISSIM simulation demonstrates that the calibrated models accurately describe constrained queue length distributions and estimate the variability of the results generated by the SSDPRE. Furthermore, applications of the calibrated models to the next-generation simulation data set and a simple CV-based adaptive signal control scheme demonstrate the readiness of the models for use in real-world situations and the potential of the models to improve system optimizations.Funding: This work was supported by The University of Hong Kong [Francis S Y Bong Professorship in Engineering and Postgraduate Scholarship] and by the Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China [Grants 17204919 and 17205822].Supplemental Material: The online appendices are available at https://doi.org/10.1287/trsc.2023.1209 .


---
**Title: Optimal Subscription Planning for Digital Goods**

**Date:** 2023-05-19

**Link:** [doi.org/10.1287/opre.2023.2468](https://www.doi.org/10.1287/opre.2023.2468)

**Journal:** Operations Research

**Abstract:** Alaei et al. consider the problem of a streaming platform that offers different set of contents with different subscription fees with the goal of maximizing revenue. They characterize the necessary and sufficient condition for the consumer preferences under which a single-tier subscription is optimal. In particular, they show the preferences of the consumers for different contents must be aligned for a single-tier subscription to be optimal. This condition is often violated in practice, establishing the suboptimality of a single-tier offering. They further show that a subscription fee proportional to the number of contents is near-optimal.


---
**Title: A Nonparametric Algorithm for Optimal Stopping Based on Robust Optimization**

**Date:** 2023-05-19

**Link:** [doi.org/10.1287/opre.2023.2461](https://www.doi.org/10.1287/opre.2023.2461)

**Journal:** Operations Research

**Abstract:** Optimal stopping is a fundamental class of stochastic dynamic optimization problems with numerous applications in finance and operations management. In “A nonparametric algorithm for optimal stopping based on robust optimization,” the author introduces an approach based on robust optimization for computing near-optimal solutions for computationally demanding stochastic optimal stopping problems with known probability distributions. Through this new use of robust optimization, the paper develops new algorithms for solving stochastic optimal stopping problems that are practical and can outperform state-of-the-art simulation-based algorithms in the context of pricing high-dimensional financial options.


---
